[website] Revise the Lead Designer role job ad (#35912)
mui/material-ui: docs/src/pages/careers/lead-designer.md

# Lead Designer

<p class="description">You will be accountable for MUI's design execution and a small team of designers.</p>

## Details of the Role

- **Location**: Remote (preference for UTC-6 to UTC+5).
- **Type of work**: Full-time (contractor or employee [depending on circumstances](https://mui-org.notion.site/Hiring-FAQ-64763b756ae44c37b47b081f98915501#494af1f358794028beb4b7697b5d3102)).
- **Level**: [4 or above](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/18VvbVCNBRWu-QYPncBl5IWTXTOpD68UQsLsymBvfm88/edit#gid=0).

> - We're a **remote** company, operating mostly asynchronously.

Reviewer: It sounds fair, could you update the role template https://github.com/mui/material-ui/blob/master/docs/src/pages/careers/ROLE_TEMPLATE.md with the changes that impacts all roles?

Ideally the other open roles too but I could sync if necessary.

Author: I'll do the template for now just so this PR doesn't get unnecessarily long!

- **Location**: Remote (preference for UTC-6 to UTC+5).
- **Type of work**: Full-time (contractor or employee [depending on circumstances](https://mui-org.notion.site/Hiring-FAQ-64763b756ae44c37b47b081f98915501#494af1f358794028beb4b7697b5d3102)).
- **Level**: [4 or above](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/18VvbVCNBRWu-QYPncBl5IWTXTOpD68UQsLsymBvfm88/edit#gid=0).

> - We're a **remote** company, operating mostly asynchronously.

Reviewer: I feel that this is clearer for someone that isn't familiar with the idea:

```suggestion
- We're a **remote** company, we prefer asynchronous communication over meetings.
```

### Why this is interesting

Our products empowers React developers to build amazing applications faster – we see millions of developers on MUI's docs every year, one million a month.

However, despite Material UI – our biggest library – being [the leading](https://tsh.io/state-of-frontend/#over-the-past-year-which-of-the-following-design-systems-was-your-favorite-go-to-solution) UI design system in the frontend space, its adoption is only at 25%.
More importantly, our challenges go way beyond the ones of design sytems.

We envision a future where MUI becomes the default toolkit for web developers to create UIs.
It's why we've been expanding our offering with Joy UI, MUI Base, and MUI Toolpad.

> Design is a protagonist to achieving this goal.

Reviewer: Maybe?

```suggestion
Design is foundational to achieving this goal.
```

We envision a future where MUI becomes the default toolkit for web developers to create UIs.
It's why we've been expanding our offering with Joy UI, MUI Base, and MUI Toolpad.

> 

Reviewer: I think that we should connect the two ideas together, the goal we refer to is the long term one (I assume).

```suggestion
```

## About you

We're looking for someone with an expert eye for both UI and UX design. Details matter to you.

You're a manager that can support, and guide the team.

> And, it's also important that you have enough development skills – CSS, JSX, Git, etc. – to assist the implementation of the designs (or implemenet them yourself).

Reviewer: I think that we need to go beyond communication. I think that knowing about communication is a must but also clearly not enough. I think that the person should be able to have implementation discussions with the engineers, to fill the gaps. The most impacting product designers in our space that I saw had also an engineering background.

Other ways to look at it, 1. https://vercel.com/design team lead is a Design Engineer, 2. our design team will have engineers inside, at least, it's the current direction we are taking, so the person should be able to level with them.

> And, it's also important that you have enough development skills – CSS, JSX, Git, etc. – to assist the implementation of the designs (or implemenet them yourself).

Author: Cool, both of your comments make sense to me! Rephrased it slightly so it incorporates both a bit.

### Skills you should have

- **Expert-level UI knowledge**. You can craft great-looking designs, spotting tiny details most people wouldn't pay attention to.
- **Expert-level UX knowledge**. You can build intuitive solutions, both high and low-level ones. You care about the entire user journey as well as an interaction with a specific component.
- **Sharp written and verbal communication skills**. Communicating clearly is fundamental to create and manage high-quality products and teams. You'll interface with our team, community members, enterprise customers and also contribute to user documentation.
- **Managerial abilities**. You have either managed a team before or are feeling ready to start now. You've shown that you're a design leader and can provide the needed guidance and support to other designers.
- **Comfortable around design systems**. You've worked on one before and have experienced the challenges of developing it.

> - **Enough development autonomy**. Our products are essentially code. Knowing how to navigate through code is essential to really understand them, improve the collaboration with engineers, and guarantee the attention to detail that's key for their success. You know how to work with CSS (mainly CSS-in-JS), JSX, and Git.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Enough development autonomy**.  Our products are essentially code. Knowing how to navigate through code is key to understanding MUI products and collaborating with engineers. You know how to work with CSS (mainly CSS-in-JS), JSX, and Git.
```

- **Managerial abilities**. You have either managed a team before or are feeling ready to start now. You've shown that you're a design leader at heart and can provide the needed guidance and support to other designers.
- **Comfortable around design systems**. You've worked on one before and have experienced the challenges of developing it.
- **Enough development autonomy**. Our products are essentially code. Knowing how to navigate through code is key to understanding MUI products and collaborating with engineers. You know how to work with CSS (mainly CSS-in-JS), JSX, and Git.

### What would be nice if you had, but isn't required

- **Experience with open-source products**. You have seen the particular product dynamics when in an OSS environment and are knowledgable of the challenges.

## Benefits & Compensation

Competitive compensation depending on the profile and location.
We are ready to pay top market rates for a person that can clearly exceed the role's expectations.
You can find the other perks & benefits on the [careers](https://mui.com/careers/#perks-amp-benefits) page.

## Interview steps

Here's a brief overview of how this role's process will be carried through:

> - **Introduction call** (20 to 25 min ⎯ with a designer): A short call to quickly introduce each other.

Reviewer: How about?

```suggestion
- **Introduction call** (20 to 25 min): A short call to quickly introduce each other.
```

It took 53 and 72 for the last two hires [source](https://app.ashbyhq.com/reports/saved/5d950db9-9c0f-4099-be11-1ddbc41c3e1e) but ashby reports 4 interviews done with designers in the last 30 days: https://app.ashbyhq.com/reports/saved/b56119d5-ac73-4117-9398-2004685cff15. So at this pace, we would need   375 days to fill the role 🙃.

- **Career deep dive** (40 to 60 min ⎯ with a designer): We'll go through your career a bit more in-depth and will be interested in understanding your trajectory up to the point where you've applied to this role.

> - **Comparable experience review** (40 to 60 min ⎯ with a designer, product manager or tech lead): You'll present one to three (up to you) of your prior experiences that showcase how capable you're of taking this role.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Comparable experience review** (40 to 60 min ⎯ with a designer, product manager or tech lead): We'll deep dive into a presentation of relevant past experiences to understand your approach to problem-solving and design. 
```

Reviewer: I think that we could make it clear that we will dive into the portfolio at this step.

Author: Gerda's suggestion is quite clear to me ⎯ it's not necessarily diving into each and every portfolio item but rather the ones the candidate believe showcase the best the skills we're looking for!

> - **Conversation with the CEO** (30 min): A quick call so you get to know each other, and talk about vision, future, history, etc.

Reviewer: I have never been able to fit it in less than 45 minutes.

```suggestion
- **Conversation with the CEO** (60 min): A quick call so you get to know each other, and talk about vision, future, history, etc.
```

Author: I agree but also think that if the candidate got to the last stage of the conversation, it's because other team members resonated with them, on a cultural level. It's something you kinda assess organically through the various steps. Of course you can ask tailored questions for that, but I'm concerned people interpret like "cultural fit and call with CEO will basically if he likes me or not".

We're looking for someone with an expert eye for both UI and UX design. Details matter to you.

> You're a manager that can support and guide the team.

Reviewer: Since we say "You have either managed a team before or are feeling ready to start now" down the line, I think that we go one step back. I don't think that it's so much a manager (I'm afraid it could attract people that can't do IC work very well) that we need at this stage, but 1. someone to lead (coordinate the direction for the design team) 2. and someone to **support** the design team. It's the beginning of what a manager would do, but not full-time.

```suggestion
You're a leader who can support and guide a small but growing design team.
```

> And, it's also important that you have enough development skills – CSS, JSX, Git, etc. – to communicate effectively with engineers, product managers, and other designers, ensuring that the implementation truly reflects the feature/project's vision.

Reviewer: I propose this alternative version. The big change would be: 1. the person in this role will be accountable for the end experience of the design, the implementation **included**. 2. we shift from "communication" to "collaboration".

```suggestion
It's also important that you have enough development skills – CSS, JSX, Git, etc. – to be accountable for the quality of the design experience implemented.
You will collaborate with engineers, product managers, and other designers, to ensure that the implementation truly reflects the feature/project's vision.
```

### What would be nice if you had, but isn't required

> - **Experience with open-source products**. You have seen the particular product dynamics when in an OSS environment and are knowledgable of the challenges.

Reviewer: Not entirely sure, but I think that developers never refer to React as an open-source product, they use "open-source project".

```suggestion
- **Experience with open-source projects**. You have seen the particular product dynamics when in an OSS environment and are knowledgable of the challenges.
```
